{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Event Handling:\
- AWT: Event handling in AWT is based on the delegation model, where events are handled by implementing listener interfaces and registering them with the component using the `addActionListener()` method.\
- Swing: Swing also follows the delegation model for event handling. However, it introduces a more flexible and powerful event model using listeners and events. Swing components provide methods like `addActionListener()`, `addMouseListener()`, etc., to register listeners for specific events.\
\
Look and Feel:\
- AWT: AWT components have a platform-dependent look and feel, as they rely on the underlying native windowing system of the operating system.\
- Swing: Swing components have a pluggable look and feel, which means they can be rendered with different styles and appearances. Swing provides its own set of look and feel implementations, such as Metal, Nimbus, and Windows, which can be easily changed at runtime.\
\
Customization and Extensibility:\
- AWT: AWT components are lightweight and have limited customization options. It is not easy to extend or modify the behavior of AWT components.\
- Swing: Swing components are highly customizable and extensible. They support a rich set of properties, methods, and events, allowing developers to create their own custom components by subclassing existing Swing components or implementing the appropriate interfaces.\
\
Performance:\
- AWT: AWT components are heavyweight and rely on the underlying operating system for rendering and event handling. This can sometimes result in lower performance, especially in complex GUIs.\
- Swing: Swing components are lightweight and implemented entirely in Java. They provide their own rendering and event handling, resulting in better performance compared to AWT. Swing also supports double-buffering to reduce flickering and improve rendering efficiency.\
\
Overall, Swing provides a more advanced and feature-rich framework for building GUI applications compared to AWT. It offers enhanced look and feel, better event handling, and improved customization options. However, AWT still has its uses in specific cases where platform-specific integration is required or when working with legacy code.}